A scholarship is a form of financial aid awarded to students for further education . Generally, scholarships are awarded based on a set of criteria such as academic merit, diversity and inclusion , athletic skill, and financial need, research experience or specific professional experience. Scholarship criteria usually reflect the values and goals of the donor of the award. While scholarship recipients are not required to repay scholarships, the awards may require that the recipient continue to meet certain requirements during their period of support, such as maintaining a minimum grade point average or engaging in a certain activity (e.g., playing on a school sports team for athletic scholarship holders). [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Scholarships also range in generosity; some cover partial tuition , while others offer a 'full-ride', covering all tuition, accommodation, housing and others. Historically, scholarships originated as acts of religious and philanthropic charity in medieval Europe before evolving into institutional tools of social mobility and national development. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] From early support offered at universities such as the University of Bologna and Harvard University to the standardized merit-based aid of the 20th century, scholarships reflect evolving educational priorities. [ 3 ] [ 5 ] In recent decades, scholarships have also become vital to public policy. They are increasingly used by governments and organizations to promote educational equity, economic development, and poverty alleviation . [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] International frameworks such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 note the key role of scholarships in expanding educational access for disadvantaged learners to meet national and global development goals. At the same time, rising enrollment and reduced public funding has increased reliance on donor-supported scholarships and cost-sharing models, which further position scholarships as essential mechanisms in offsetting the burden of educational expenses. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Some prestigious, highly competitive scholarships are well-known even outside the academic community, such as Fulbright Scholarship and the Rhodes Scholarships at the graduate level, and the Robertson , Morehead-Cain and Jefferson Scholarships at the undergraduate level. While the terms scholarship and grant are frequently used interchangeably, they are distinctly different. Where grants are offered based exclusively on financial need, scholarships may have a financial need component but rely on other criteria as well. [ 11 ] A federal Pell Grant can be awarded to someone planning to receive their undergraduate degree and is solely based on their financial needs. [ 12 ] The most common scholarships may be classified as: One of the earliest examples of organized financial support for students is at the oldest operating university , the University of Bologna , in the 12th century. There, students formed associations called nations based on their geographic origins and pooled resources in "loan chests" to help one another pay off debts and educational expenses. [ 3 ] The origins of modern scholarships trace back to medieval Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, where they took the form of charitable patronage. Initially, financial support for students was provided as a gift between wealthy families, with later funding extended to low-income students as acts of piety, penance, or mercy. The ethos of supporting students was rooted in Christian teachings that emphasized care of the poor and the promotion of pious learning. [ 4 ] European philanthropic traditions continued as institutions of higher education emerged in the colonies in North America . Wealthy colonists held philanthropic roles in the sponsorship and patronage of grade schools and higher learning institutions. In 1643, Lady Anne Radcliffe Mowlson donated £100 to Harvard College to aid poor students in their pursuit of education, marking one of the first formal scholarship endowments in the United States. This set the precedent for philanthropic scholarship at all levels of education. [ 3 ] In 1838, Harvard University created the Harvard Loan Program, one of the first institutional loan programs. It provided zero-interest loans to students unable to afford tuition. This model expanded across higher learning institutions to help students gain access to education through charitable lending. [ 3 ] The 19th century also saw a broader emphasis on civic virtue and meritocratic ideals. Financial aid became aligned with the belief that supporting students would foster an educated citizenry and national development. [ 4 ] The introduction of standardized testing became a turning point for scholarship distribution. American universities began using standardized tests such as the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) in the late 1920s, with Harvard adopting it in 1934 to expand scholarship eligibility to identify talented students for scholarship funding, promoting merit-based aid rather than need-based aid. [ 5 ] [ 25 ] Following World War II , the U.S. passed the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 (G.I. Bill), which dramatically expanded access to education through government scholarships and loans for veterans. This development marked a shift toward greater governmental responsibility in financing and coordinating higher education. [ 3 ] Scholarships have increasingly been recognized by governments and international organizations as tools for achieving development objectives, poverty alleviation , and promoting equitable access to education. Higher education supported through scholarships has been described as an "engine of development" that fosters industrialization, economic growth, and the training of skilled professionals across sectors. [ 6 ] The United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 , Quality Education, emphasizes inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning opportunities. Target 4.b specifically calls for the expansion of global scholarships available to students from developing countries, particularly in higher education, technical and vocational education and training , and STEM education. [ 7 ] UNESCO's Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action for the implementation of SDG 4 describes scholarships as a means to promote international knowledge exchange and improve access for marginalized learners. In 2010, scholarships accounted for a quarter of total educational aid, averaging $3.2 billion USD annually. [ 8 ] UNESCO's 2002 analysis on financing education found that beyond individual benefits, equitable scholarship distribution contributes to broader economic and social returns, including increased productivity, civic engagement, and national capacity-building. [ 9 ] At the start of the 21st century, higher education faced unprecedented demand from individuals seeking upward economic mobility and from governments pursuing national development. However, rising enrollment and limited public budgets created financial pressures across education systems. Governments also faced competing social priorities, contributing to reduced state funding and a growing reliance on non-governmental revenue sources for educational access. [ 6 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] In this context, some policymakers argue that meeting the increasing demands of secondary and post-secondary education requires greater cost-sharing by students and their families. [ 9 ] Educator Donald Bruce Johnstone describes cost sharing as the distribution of educational expenses among governments, parents, students, and donors. [ 10 ] This shift often involved the introduction of user fees, particularly in higher education where individual returns are highest, alongside increased reliance on donor-supported financing. [ 9 ] As tuition fees rose and public subsidies declined education systems transitioned from state-dominated financing to multi-source funding, relying on donations, fundraising, scholarships, and contributions from private and civil society actors. [ 6 ] [ 10 ] Other policy makers and experts, however, caution that these measures may restrict access for poorer households and deepen existing inequalities. [ 9 ] Scholarships maintain an essential role in this new policy environment. As public subsidies decline, scholarship programs supported by institutions, international donors, and philanthropic groups have become central to preserving access to education for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. While cost sharing has allowed some higher education institutions to expand enrollment, it has also reinforced the function of scholarships as essential tools for addressing access gaps left by declining public investment and offsetting the rising costs borne by students and their families. [ 6 ] [ 10 ]\n\nStudent financial aid (or student financial support , or student aid ) is financial support given to individuals who are furthering their education . Student financial aid can come in a number of forms, including scholarships , grants , student loans , and work study programs. Each of these methods of providing financial support to students has its advantages and drawbacks. Many countries have some kind of financial aid program for their students. [ 1 ] In countries that provide education to all at nominal cost, financial aid may have only a tertiary link to educational status, instead tied to the economic conditions of the family, and financial support for students is primarily indirect. In Belgium , for example, "[t]here is no system of student loans and direct support is only given in the form of means-tested grants to students from low-income families", which constitutes a very limited proportion of students. [ 2 ]  This article relating to education is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information .\n\n The Fulbright Program , including the Fulbright–Hays Program , is one of several United States cultural exchange programs with the goal of improving intercultural relations , cultural diplomacy , and intercultural competence between the people of the United States and other countries through the mutual exchange of persons, knowledge, and skills. The program was founded by United States senator J. William Fulbright in 1946, and has been considered as one of the most prestigious scholarships in the United States. [ 1 ] Via the program, competitively selected American citizens including students, scholars, teachers, professionals, scientists, and artists may receive scholarships or grants to study, conduct research, teach, or exercise their talents abroad; and citizens of other countries may qualify to do the same in the United States. The program provides approximately 8,000 grants annually, comprising roughly 1,600 grants to U.S. students, 1,200 to U.S. scholars, 4,000 to foreign students, 900 to foreign visiting scholars, and several hundred to teachers and professionals. [ 2 ] The Fulbright Program is administered by cooperating organizations such as the Institute of International Education and operates in over 160 countries around the world. [ 3 ] The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the U.S. Department of State sponsors the Fulbright Program and receives funding from the United States Congress via annual appropriation bills . Additional direct and in-kind support comes from partner governments, foundations, corporations, and host institutions both in and outside the U.S. [ 4 ] In 49 countries, a bi-national Fulbright Commission administers and oversees the Fulbright Program. In countries that have an active program but no Fulbright Commission, the Public Affairs Section of the U.S. embassy oversees the Fulbright Program. More than 370,000 people have participated in the program since it began; 63 Fulbright alumni have been awarded a Nobel Prize ; [ 5 ] 93 have won Pulitzer Prizes . [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] The Fulbright Program's mission is to bring a little more knowledge, a little more reason, and a little more compassion into world affairs and thereby increase the chance that nations will learn at last to live in peace and friendship. [ 9 ] — Senator J. William Fulbright In 1945, Senator J. William Fulbright proposed a bill to use the proceeds from selling surplus U.S. government war property to fund international exchange between the U.S. and other countries. With the crucial timing of the aftermath of the Second World War and with the pressing establishment of the United Nations, the Fulbright Program was an attempt to promote peace and understanding through educational exchange. The bill devised a plan to forgo the debts foreign countries amassed during the war in return for funding an international educational program. [ 10 ] A detailed proposal was first considered by the State Department on 1 March 1946. [ 11 ] It was through the belief that this program would be an essential vehicle to promote peace and mutual understanding between individuals, institutions and future leaders wherever they may be. [ 12 ] In August 1946, Congress created the Fulbright Program in what became the largest education exchange program in history. The program was expanded by the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 , introduced by Representative Wayne Hays and known as Fulbright–Hays Act. It made possible participation in international fairs and expositions, including trade and industrial fairs; translations; funding for American studies programs; funds to promote medical, scientific, cultural, and educational research and development; and modern foreign language training. [ 13 ] The program operates on a bi-national basis; each country has entered into an agreement with the U.S. government. The first countries to sign agreements were China in 1947 and Burma , the Philippines, and Greece in 1948. [ 12 ] Originally, the program was administered by the Council for International Exchange of Scholars , but in 1996 these responsibilities were transferred to the Institute of International Education . [ 14 ] In March 2024, the Russian government declared the Institute of International Education (IIE) and Cultural Vistas as "undesirable" in Russia. [ 15 ] This decision effectively ended the Fulbright Program, which had been established in the USSR during the 1973–74 academic year. [ 16 ] In February 2025, the Trump administration initiated a funding freeze on State Department programs, including the Fulbright Program, disrupting financial support for thousands of scholars. [ 17 ] The suspension impacted over 19,000 participants. [ 18 ] The freeze was gradually lifted at the end of March 2025. [ 19 ] On June 11, 2025, eleven of the twelve members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board resigned in protest, citing what they described as "unlawful" political interference by the Trump administration. [ 20 ] The board, which provides oversight for the international Fulbright exchange program, alleged that political appointees at the U.S. Department of State blocked or delayed awards for the 2025–26 academic year and subjected more than 1,200 foreign finalists to unauthorized ideological screening. The board’s open letter stated that review criteria were improperly influenced by applicants’ positions on topics such as climate change, race, and gender. [ 21 ] [ 22 ] [ 23 ] The resignations prompted concern from higher education leaders and U.S. lawmakers. Senator Jeanne Shaheen stated that the alleged interference “politicizes one of our most respected international education programs” and could harm the U.S.'s global academic credibility. [ 21 ] [ 24 ] Educational exchange can turn nations into people, contributing as no other form of communication can to the humanizing of international relations. [ 28 ] — Senator J. William Fulbright The Fulbright Program exchanges scholars and students with numerous countries in bilateral partnerships managed by commissions for each country. It provides funding for U.S. persons to visit other countries in the U.S. Student Program, U.S. Scholar Program, Teacher Exchange Program, and others, and enables foreign nationals to visit the United States in programs such as the Foreign Student Program, Visiting Scholar Program, Teacher Exchange Program. Candidates recommended for Fulbright grants have high academic achievement, a compelling project proposal or statement of purpose, demonstrated leadership potential, and flexibility and adaptability to interact successfully with the host community. Fulbright grants are awarded in almost all academic disciplines, except clinical medical research involving patient contact. Fulbright grantees' fields of study span the fine arts, humanities, social sciences, mathematics, natural and physical sciences, and professional and applied sciences. [ 29 ] The Fulbright Teacher Exchange Program supports one-to-one exchanges of teachers from K–12 schools and a small number of post-secondary institutions. The Distinguished Fulbright Awards in Teaching Program sends teachers abroad for a semester to pursue individual projects, conduct research, and lead master classes or seminars. [ 33 ] The Hubert H. Humphrey Program brings outstanding mid-career professionals from the developing world and societies in transition to the United States for one year. Fellows participate in a non-degree program of academic study and gain professional experience. The Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program sends American scholars and professionals abroad to lecture or conduct research for up to a year. The Fulbright Specialist Program sends U.S. faculty and professionals to serve as expert consultants on curriculum, faculty development, institutional planning, and related subjects at overseas academic institutions for a period of two to six weeks. The Fulbright U.S. Student Program offers fellowships for U.S. graduating seniors, graduate students, young professionals and artists to study abroad for one academic year. The program also includes an English Teaching Assistant component. The Fulbright Foreign Student Program enables graduate students, young professionals and artists from abroad to conduct research and study in the United States. Some scholarships are renewed after the initial year of study. [ 33 ] The Fulbright–Hays Program is a component of the Fulbright Program funded by a congressional appropriation to the United States Department of Education. It awards grants to individual U.S. K through 14 pre-teachers, teachers and administrators, pre-doctoral students, and post-doctoral faculty, as well as to U.S. institutions and organizations. Funding supports research and training efforts overseas, which focus on non-western foreign languages and area studies. [ 34 ] [ 35 ] Four Fulbright–Hays grants currently make awards: Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad, Fulbright–Hays Faculty Research Abroad, Fulbright–Hays Group Projects Abroad and Fulbright–Hays Seminars Abroad. [ 35 ] Fulbright–Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad fellowships provide grants to U.S. colleges and universities to fund individual doctoral students who conduct research in other countries, in modern foreign languages and area studies for periods of 6–12 months. [ 36 ] Fulbright–Hays Faculty Research Abroad fellowships provide grants to U.S. colleges and universities to fund individual faculty who conduct research in other countries, in modern foreign languages and area studies for periods of 3–12 months. [ 37 ] Fulbright–Hays Group Projects Abroad provides grants to support overseas projects in training, research, and curriculum development in modern foreign languages and area studies for teachers, students, and faculty engaged in a common endeavor, including short-term seminars, curriculum development, group research or study, or advanced intensive language programs. [ 38 ] Fulbright–Hays Seminars Abroad provides individual U.S. educators and administrators opportunities to go abroad as part of a group in the summer to participate in immersive educational and cultural activities and thereby improve their understanding of the peoples and cultures of other countries. Based on their seminar experiences, participants develop cross-cultural curricula for their home educational contexts. [ 39 ] The program is coordinated by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) of the U.S. Department of State under policy guidelines established by the Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board (FSB), with the help of 50 bi-national Fulbright commissions, U.S. embassies, and cooperating organizations in the U.S. [ 4 ] The United States Department of State is responsible for managing, coordinating and overseeing the Fulbright program. Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs is the bureau in the Department of State that has primary responsibility for the administration of the program. The United States Department of Education is responsible for managing, coordinating and overseeing the Fulbright–Hays program. [ 35 ] The Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board is a twelve-member board of educational and public leaders appointed by the president of the United States that determines general policy and direction for the Fulbright Program and approves all candidates nominated for Fulbright Scholarships. [ 40 ] Bi-national Fulbright commissions and foundations, most of which are funded jointly by the U.S. and partner governments, develop priorities for the program, including the numbers and categories of grants. More specifically, they plan and implement educational exchanges, recruit and nominate candidates for fellowships; designate qualified local educational institutions to host Fulbrighters; fundraise; engage alumni; support incoming U.S. Fulbrighters; and, in many countries, operate an information service for the public on educational opportunities in the United States. [ 41 ] In a country active in the program without a Fulbright commission, the Public Affairs Section of the U.S. Embassy administers the Fulbright Program, including recruiting and nominating candidates for grants to the U.S., overseeing U.S. Fulbrighters on their grant in the country, and engaging alumni. Established in 1919 in the aftermath of World War I, the Institute of International Education was created to catalyze educational exchange. In 1946, the U.S. Department of State invited IIE to administer the graduate student component and CIES [ clarification needed ] to administer the faculty component of the Fulbright Program—IIE's largest program to date. [ 42 ] AMIDEAST administers Fulbright Foreign Student grants for grantees from the Middle East and North Africa, excluding Israel. LASPAU: Affiliated with Harvard University [ 43 ] LASPAU brings together a valuable network of individuals, institutions, leaders and organizations devoted to building knowledge-based societies across the Americas. Among other functions, LASPAU administers the Junior Faculty Development Program, a part of the Fulbright Foreign Student Program, for grantees from Central and South America and the Caribbean. World Learning administers the Fulbright Specialist Program. [ 44 ] American Councils for International Education (ACTR/ACCELS) administers the Junior Faculty Development Program (JFDP), a special academic exchange for grantees from the Caucasus, Central Asia, and Southeast Europe. The Academy for Educational Development administers the Fulbright Classroom Teacher Exchange Program and the Distinguished Fulbright Awards in Teaching Program. The Fulbright Association is an organization independent of the Fulbright Program and not associated with the U.S. Department of State. The Fulbright Association was established on February 27, 1977, as a private nonprofit, membership organization with over 9,000 members. Arthur Power Dudden was its founding president. He wanted alumni to educate members of the U.S. Congress and the public about the benefits of advancing increased mutual understanding between the people of the United States and those of other countries. In addition to the Fulbright Association in the U.S., independent Fulbright Alumni associations exist in over 75 countries around the world. The Fulbright Academy was an organization independent of the Fulbright Program and not associated with the U.S. Department of State. A non-partisan, non-profit organization with members worldwide, the Fulbright Academy focused on the professional advancement and collaboration needs among the 100,000+ Fulbright alumni in science, technology, and related fields. It merged into the Fulbright Association in 2013. The Fulbright Program has commissions in 49 of the over 160 countries with which it has bilateral partnerships. These foundations are funded jointly by the U.S. and partner governments. The role of the Fulbright Commissions is to plan and implement educational exchanges; recruit and nominate candidates, both domestic and foreign, for fellowships; designate qualified local educational institutions to host Fulbrighters; and support incoming U.S. Fulbrighters while engaging with alumni. [ 45 ] Below is a list of current commissions. The J. William Fulbright Prize for International Understanding is awarded by the Fulbright Association to recognize individuals or organisations which have made extraordinary contributions toward bringing peoples, cultures, or nations to greater understanding of others. Established in 1993, the prize was first awarded to Nelson Mandela . Fulbright alumni have occupied key roles in government, academia, and industry. Of the more than 325,000 alumni:\n\n The Chevening Scholarship is an international scholarship , funded by the British Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office and partner organizations, [ 1 ] that enables foreign students to study at universities in the United Kingdom . [ 2 ] Chevening Scholarship is highly competitive with an acceptance rate around two percent from tens of thousands of applicants from all over the world. [ 3 ] The Chevening Scholarships Programme commenced in 1983 as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Awards Scheme (FCOAS) and is funded by the British government 's Foreign and Commonwealth Office and its partner organisations. [ 1 ] [ 4 ] The stated objective of the scheme is to build a network of friends of the UK, who will be future leaders in their countries. In 1994, the name of the scheme was changed to Chevening, after Chevening House in Sevenoaks, Kent – currently the joint official residence of the British Foreign Secretary and the British Deputy Prime Minister . [ 2 ] A companion Chevening Fellowships Scheme was launched by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 2004. The Fellowships programme provides places for mid-career professionals already in positions of leadership and influence to undertake 3-month courses in fields related to the FCDO's policy goals. [ 5 ] In 2007–08, the Chevening Scholarships cost the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office approximately £22 million. [ 6 ] In the same year the Chevening Fellowships scheme cost approximately £4 million. [ 6 ] In July 2010, the British Foreign Minister announced a cut of £10 million from the scholarships budget, in the context of wider budget cuts. This resulted in several scholarships being cancelled for 2010–11. After a review period, the 2011–12 scholarship round opened for applications in February 2011. In 2011–12, the number of scholarships was increased to more than 700 worldwide. In 2015–16, the number of scholarships was increased to 1,500. [ 7 ] In 2017–18, the total number of scholarships was 1,650. [ 8 ] In April 2012, the Association of Commonwealth Universities took over the running of the scheme from the British Council , establishing a Chevening Secretariat. In September 2023 British Council took over as Secretariat of the scheme from the Association of Commonwealth Universities. [ citation needed ] In October 2018, the Chevening Scholarships Programme celebrated its 35th anniversary by awarding a total number of 1,800 scholarships from 160 countries for the 2018–19 school year. [ 9 ] Earlier that year, the number of Chevening alumni also hit the 50,000 mark. [ 10 ] In 2024, Chevening celebrated its 40th anniversary. [ 11 ] The number of available scholarships varies from country to country. More than thirty scholarships are currently awarded to candidates from Nepal, India, Russia and China. Twenty or more are awarded to candidates from Egypt, South Korea, Indonesia, Bhutan, Pakistan, Mexico, Thailand and Brazil, with less than five core scholarships now available to candidates from Australia and Canada [ 2 ] (US students are not eligible, but can apply for the Marshall Scholarships which are also funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office). [ citation needed ] In 2017–18, over 1,650 scholarships were awarded to students from more than 140 countries, [ 8 ] allowing students from developing countries to access UK tertiary education institutions. [ 12 ] In this way the Chevening scheme is similar to the US Fulbright Scholarships which bring students from 140 countries to the US [ 13 ] and differs from the Rhodes Scholarship scheme which currently allows applications from approximately 18 countries. [ 14 ] [ original research? ] Winners of Chevening scholarships have received coverage in national and local newspapers. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] During the Chevening 40th anniversary in 2023, the programme said it had granted its scholarship to 1,500 Nigerians since 1983. [ 17 ] [ 18 ] The Chevening Scholarship is not available to non-indigenous Australian candidates. [ 19 ] The selection criteria for Chevening Scholarship aim to identify "high-calibre graduates with the personal, intellectual and interpersonal qualities necessary for leadership". Specific selection criteria for Chevening Scholarships vary from country to country, and from year to year. In 2017/18, of 65,000 applicants, 1,650 scholarships were awarded. [ 8 ] Applications are made online via a web portal between early August and early November [ 20 ] of each year, except for some sponsored scholarships for which applicants apply via the co-sponsoring organisation. [ 20 ] Scholarship applicants must also apply directly to their preferred universities in the UK , usually for taught master's degree courses. Most scholarships include a living stipend, airfares and the full or partial cost of tuition fees. [ 21 ] [ 22 ] The most popular destinations for study in 2011 were the London School of Economics & Political Science , University College London , and the universities of Oxford , Cambridge , Edinburgh , University of Nottingham , University of Bath and King's College London . [ 2 ] As of 2024, there are over 60,000 Chevening Scholarship alumni, [ 23 ] with an emphasis being placed on improved links with and between previous scholars as a consequence of reviews in 2005 [ 24 ] and 2006. [ 25 ] Many Chevening Scholars have since gone on to reach positions of influence in a range of sectors. 21 current or former heads of states are Chevening alumni, [ 23 ] and include: [ 26 ]\n\n The Rhodes Scholarship is an international postgraduate award for students to study at the University of Oxford in Oxford , United Kingdom. The scholarship is open to people from all backgrounds around the world. [ 1 ] Established in 1902, it is one of the oldest graduate scholarships in the world and one of the most prestigious international scholarship programmes. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Its founder, Cecil John Rhodes , wanted to promote unity among English-speaking nations and instil a sense of civic-minded leadership and moral fortitude in future leaders, irrespective of their chosen career paths. [ 6 ] The scholarship committee selects candidates based on a combination of literary and academic achievements, athletic involvement, character traits like truth and courage, and leadership potential, originally assessed on a 200-point scale. In 2018, the criteria were revised to emphasize using one's talents and caring for others. The American Rhodes Scholarship is highly competitive, with an acceptance rate of around four percent in recent years, while other countries have varying rates. [ 7 ] Scholars can study full-time postgraduate courses at Oxford for one to three years, receiving financial support for tuition and living expenses, along with access to Rhodes House facilities. The Rhodes Scholarship has faced controversies since its inception, primarily concerning the exclusion of women and black Africans. Initially, the scholarship was limited to male students within the Commonwealth of Nations , Germany, and the United States, a restriction that only changed in 1977 following the passage of the Sex Discrimination Act. Protests for the inclusion of non-white scholars began in the 1970s, but it was not until 1991 that black South Africans were awarded the scholarship due to the political changes in the country. Additionally, criticism of Cecil Rhodes's colonialist legacy has spurred movements calling for a reevaluation of the scholarship and its ties to Rhodes's views. Critics have also highlighted the tendency of recipients to pursue careers in business rather than public service, diverging from the scholarship's original intent. Numerous international scholarship programmes were very much underway by 1900. Since the 1880s, governments, universities, and individuals in the settler colonies had been establishing travelling scholarships to home universities. By 1900, the travelling scholarship had become an important part of settler universities' educational visions. It served as a crucial mechanism by which they sought to claim their citizenship of what they saw as the expansive British academic world. The Rhodes programme was a copy of others that soon became the best-known version. [ 8 ] The Rhodes Trust established the scholarships in 1902 under the terms laid out in the eighth and final will of Cecil John Rhodes , dated 1 July 1899 and appended by several codicils through March 1902. The scholarships were founded for two reasons: to promote unity within the British empire, and to strengthen diplomatic ties between Britain and the United States of America. In Rhodes's own words, "I…desire to encourage and foster an appreciation of the advantages which I implicitly believe will result from the union of the English-speaking peoples throughout the world and to encourage in the students from North America who would benefit from the American Scholarships." [ 6 ] Rhodes also bequeathed scholarships to German students in the hope that, "a good understanding between England, Germany and the United States of America will secure the peace of the world." Rhodes, who attended Oriel College, Oxford , believed the university's residential colleges would be the best venue to nurture diplomatic ties between future world leaders. To this day, controversies persist over Rhodes's Anglo-supremacist beliefs, most of which date back to his 1877 confession of faith. [ 9 ] However, Rhodes's final will and testament states that "no student shall be qualified or disqualified for election…on account of his race or religious opinions". [ 6 ] The Rhodes Scholarships are administered and awarded by the Rhodes Trust, which is located at Rhodes House in Oxford. The trust has been modified by four acts of Parliament: the Rhodes Estate Act 1916, the Rhodes Trust Act 1929, the Rhodes Trust Act 1946; and most recently by the Rhodes Trust (Modification) Order 1976, a statutory instrument in accordance with Section 78 (4) of the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 . [ 10 ] In 1925, the Commonwealth Fund Fellowships (later renamed the Harkness Fellowships ) were established to reciprocate the Rhodes Scholarships by enabling British graduates to study in the United States. [ 11 ] The Kennedy Scholarship programme, created in 1966 as a memorial to John F. Kennedy , adopts a comparable selection process to the Rhodes Scholarships to allow ten British post-graduate students per year to study at either Harvard or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). In 1953, the Parliament of the United Kingdom created the Marshall Scholarship as a coeducational alternative to the Rhodes Scholarship that would serve as a "living gift" to the United States. [ 12 ] Cecil Rhodes wished current scholars and Rhodes alumni (in the words of his will) to have "opportunities of meeting and discussing their experiences and prospects". This has been reflected, for example, in the initiation by the first warden (Sir Francis Wylie ), of an annual warden's Christmas letter (now supplemented by Rhodes e-news and other communications); the creation of alumni associations in several countries, most prominently the Association of American Rhodes Scholars (which publishes The American Oxonian , founded in 1914, and oversees the Eastman Professorship); and the holding of reunions for Rhodes Scholars of all countries. In recognition of the centenary of the foundation of the Rhodes Trust in 2003, four former Rhodes Scholars were awarded honorary degrees by the University of Oxford. These were John Brademas , Bob Hawke (Western Australia and University 1953), Rex Nettleford and David R. Woods. During the centenary celebrations, the foundation of the Mandela Rhodes Foundation was also marked. [ citation needed ] In 2013, during the 110th Rhodes anniversary celebrations, John McCall MacBain , Marcy McCall MacBain and the McCall MacBain Foundation donated £75 million towards the fundraising efforts of the Rhodes Trust. [ 13 ] In 2015, Rhodes Scholar R. W. Johnson published a critical account of the decline of the Rhodes Trust under its warden, John Rowett , and commended its recovery under wardens Donald Markwell and Charles R. Conn . [ 14 ] [ 15 ] As of 2018, due to the introduction of the Global Rhodes Scholarships, the Rhodes Scholarship is open to postgraduate students from anywhere in the world. Many of its greatest scholars have carried out its founder's later ideal of "equal rights for all civilized men" becoming some of the foremost voices in human rights and social justice . [ 16 ] Some have even engaged in criticism of Cecil Rhodes himself (see Rhodes must fall ). [ 17 ] Because access to further education, particularly post-graduate education, is linked with social mobility and racial wealth disparity , the scholarship (which is for post-graduate students) continues to attract criticism; however, the scholarship's recent partnership with the Atlantic Philanthropies is intended to help address those issues. [ 18 ] [ 19 ] In 2019, University of Tennessee graduate Hera Jay Brown became the first transgender woman to be selected for a Rhodes Scholarship. Two non-binary scholars were also selected for the 2020 class. [ 20 ] [ 21 ] Since 2018, the same criteria Rhodes specified in his will underwent revision and has remained in place: [ 22 ] Each country's scholarship varies in its selectivity. In the United States, applicants must first pass a university-internal endorsement process, then proceed to one of the 16 U.S. districts committees. In 2020, approximately 2,300 students sought their institution's endorsement for the American Rhodes scholarship, among those 953 from 288 institutions were university-endorsed, of whom 32 were ultimately elected. This represents a 1.4% award rate when considering both endorsed and non-endorsed applicants and a 3.4% award rate when considering endorsed applicants. As such, the American Rhodes Scholarship is more selective than the Churchill Scholarship , Truman Scholarship , Fulbright Scholarship , and Mitchell Scholarship . [ 23 ] [ 24 ] [ 25 ] It is approximately as selective as the Gates Cambridge Scholarship , which has an award rate of 1.3%, and the Marshall Scholarship , which similarly receives around 1,000 university-endorsed applicants, of whom several dozen are ultimately elected. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] In Canada between 1997 and 2002, there were an average of 234 university-endorsed applicants annually for 11 scholarships, for an acceptance rate of 4.7%. In addition, Canadian provinces differ widely in the number of applications received, with Ontario receiving 58 applications on average for 2 spots (3.4%) and Newfoundland and Labrador receiving 18 applications for 1 spot (5.7%). [ 28 ] According to the Rhodes Trust, the overall global acceptance rate stands at 0.7%, making it one of the most competitive scholarships in the world. [ 29 ] An early change was the elimination of the scholarships for Germany during the First and Second World Wars . No German scholars were chosen from 1914 to 1929, nor from 1940 to 1969. [ 30 ] A change occurred in 1929, when an Act of Parliament established a fund separate from the original proceeds of Rhodes's will and made it possible to expand the number of scholarships. Between 1993 and 1995, scholarships were extended to other countries in the European Community . Rhodes Scholars may study any full-time postgraduate course offered by the university, whether a taught master's programme, a research degree, or a second undergraduate degree (senior status). [ 31 ] The scholarship's basic tenure is two years. However, it may also be held for one year or three years. Applications for a third year are considered during the course of the second year. University and college fees are paid by the Rhodes Trust . In addition, scholars receive a monthly maintenance stipend to cover accommodation and living expenses. [ 32 ] [ 33 ] Although all scholars become affiliated with a residential college while at Oxford, they also enjoy access to the publicly-accessible Rhodes House , an early 20th-century mansion with numerous public rooms, gardens, a library, study areas, and other facilities. There were originally 60 scholarships. [ 6 ] [ 30 ] Four South African boys' schools were mentioned in Rhodes's will, each to receive an annual scholarship: the Boys High School in Stellenbosch (today known as Paul Roos Gymnasium); the Diocesan College (Bishops) in Rondebosch ; the South African College Schools (SACS) in Newlands ; and St Andrew's College in Grahamstown . These have subsequently been opened also to former students of their partner schools (girls' or co-educational schools). [ 36 ] During the ensuing 100 years, the trustees have added about another 40 scholarships at one time or another, though not all have continued. Some of these extended the scheme to Commonwealth countries not mentioned in the will. [ 37 ] Very brief summaries of some of the terms and conditions can be found on the trust's website. [ 38 ] [ 39 ] Complete details can be obtained from the nominating countries. [ 40 ] As of 2018, scholars are selected from over 20 Rhodes constituencies (64 countries) worldwide. [ 41 ] In 2015, the Rhodes Scholarship extended into new territories, first with the announcement of a number of scholarships for China , [ 42 ] later with the announcement of one to two scholarships per year for the United Arab Emirates . [ 43 ] The organization administering the scholarships is preparing to begin naming scholars from China. The move into China is the biggest expansion since women became eligible in the 1970s. [ 44 ] The Rhodes Scholarship was originally, as per the language used in Rhodes's will, open only to "male students." That stipulation did not change until 1977. Rhodes developed his scholarships partly through conversation with William Thomas Stead , editor of The Pall Mall Gazette and confidant of Rhodes, and at one time an executor of the will, who was stricken from the role when he objected to Rhodes's ill-fated effort to seize the Transvaal . Shortly after Rhodes's death, Stead implied in a published article about the will that he suggested that Rhodes open the scholarships to women, but Rhodes refused. Nothing more is said on the matter. [ 45 ] After his death, the will was under the control of the Board of Trustees of the Rhodes Trust. In 1916, however, the trustees introduced a bill into the House of Commons that, catering to popular British sentiment during the War , "revoked and annulled" the scholarships for Germans. [ 46 ] Since then, legal control over the will has resided with Parliament. In 1970, the trustees established the Rhodes Visiting Fellowships. Unlike the regular scholarship, a Visiting Fellow was expected to have a doctorate or comparable degree, and to use the two-year funded study to engage in independent research. Only 33 Visiting Fellowships were awarded. [ 47 ] In 1975, Parliament passed the Sex Discrimination Act of 1975 that banned discrimination based on sex, including in education.  The trustees then applied to the Secretary of State for Education to admit women into the scholarship, and in 1976 the request was granted. [ 48 ] In 1977, women were finally admitted to the full scholarship. Before Parliament passed the 1975 Act, some universities protested against the exclusion of women by nominating female candidates, who were later disqualified at the state level of the American competition. [ 49 ] In 1977, the first year women were eligible, 24 women (out of 72 total scholars) were selected worldwide, with 13 women and 19 men selected from the United States. [ 50 ] Since then, the average female share of the scholarship in the United States has been around 35 percent. [ 50 ] In 2007, the Association of American Rhodes Scholars published a retrospective on the first 30 years of female recipients, many of whom individually recounted personal experiences as well as professional accomplishments. [ 51 ] In his 2008 book Legacy: Cecil Rhodes, the Rhodes Trust and Rhodes Scholarship published by Yale University Press , biographer and historian Philip Ziegler writes that "The advent of women does not seem notably to have affected the balance of Scholars among the various professions, though it has reduced the incidence of worldly success." Although it is true that female recipients have not become heads of state yet, they have succeeded in many other ways as described in the Rhodes Project. [ 52 ] In South Africa , the will of Cecil Rhodes expressly allocated scholarships to four all-male private schools. In 1992, one of the four schools partnered with an all-girls school in order to allow female applicants. In 2012, the three remaining schools followed suit to allow women to apply. [ 53 ] Four of the nine scholarships allocated to South Africa are presently open only to students and alumni of these schools and partner schools. [ 53 ] Beginning in 1970, scholars began protesting against the fact that all Rhodes Scholars from southern Africa were white, with 120 Oxford dons and 80 of the 145 Rhodes Scholars in residence at the time signing a petition calling for non-white scholars to be elected in 1971. [ 54 ] : 238 The case of South Africa was especially difficult to resolve, because in his will establishing the scholarships, unlike for other constituencies, Rhodes specifically allocated four scholarships to alumni of four (formerly) white-only secondary schools. The other obstruction is that Rhodes's final will and testament explicitly states that "no student shall be qualified or disqualified for election…on account of his race or religious opinions".[6] According to Schaeper and Schaeper, [ 54 ] : 236–237 the issue became "explosive" in the 1970s and 1980s as scholars argued that the scholarship be changed while the trustees argued they were powerless to change the will. Despite such protests, only in 1991 with the rise of the African National Congress did black South Africans begin to win the scholarships. [ 54 ] : 240 Out of five thousand Rhodes Scholarships awarded between 1903 and 1990, about nine hundred went to students from Africa. [ 55 ] Public criticism of the scholarship has also focused on Cecil Rhodes's white supremacist views. For example, in 1966, regional committees in interviews asked a white American candidate to assure them he would not publicly belittle the scholarship after he referred to its founding on "blood money". [ 54 ] : 238 In 2015, a South African Rhodes Scholar, Ntokozo Qwabe , began a campaign to address Rhodes's controversial historical and political legacy , with a focus on Qwabe's own views which included such statements as "dismantling the open glorification of colonial genocide in educational and other public spaces – which makes it easy for British people to believe that these genocides were 'not that bad' – and props up the continuing structural legacies of British colonialism, neocolonialism, and ongoing imperialism". [ 56 ] Among other things, the campaign called for the removal of a statue of Rhodes from Oriel College and changes to Oxford's curriculum. [ 57 ] While the college agreed to review the placement of the statue, the Chancellor of the university, Lord Patten, was critical of the accuracy of Qwabe's statements and warned against "pandering to contemporary views." [ 58 ] A group of Rhodes Scholars also created the group Redress Rhodes whose mission was to "attain a more critical, honest, and inclusive reflection of the legacy of Cecil John Rhodes" and to "make reparative justice a more central theme for Rhodes Scholars." Their demands include, among other things, shifting the Rhodes Scholarships awarded exclusively to previously all-white South African schools (rather than the at-large national pool), dedicating a "space at Rhodes House for the critical engagement with Cecil Rhodes's legacy, as well as imperial history", and ending a ceremonial toast Rhodes Scholars make to the founder. [ 59 ] While the group does not have a position on the removal of the statue, its co-founder has called for the scholarship to be renamed as it is "the ultimate form of veneration and colonial apologism; it's a large part of why many continue to understand Rhodes as a benevolent founder and benefactor." [ 60 ] Public criticism has also focused on the alleged hypocrisy of applying for and accepting the Rhodes Scholarship while criticizing it, with University of Cambridge academic Mary Beard , writing in The Times Literary Supplement , arguing that Scholars "[could not] have your cake and eat it here: I mean you can't whitewash Rhodes out of history, but go on using his cash." [ 56 ] [ 61 ] Reacting to this criticism, Qwabe replied that "all that [Rhodes] looted must absolutely be returned immediately. I'm no beneficiary of Rhodes. I'm a beneficiary of the resources and labour of my people which Rhodes pillaged and slaved." [ 60 ] [ 62 ] A group of 198 Rhodes Scholars of various years later signed a statement supporting Qwabe and arguing that there was "no hypocrisy in being a recipient of a Rhodes scholarship and being publicly critical of Cecil Rhodes and his legacy—a legacy that continues to alienate, silence, exclude and dehumanize in unacceptable ways. There is no clause that binds us to find 'the good' in Rhodes's character, nor to sanitize the imperialist, colonial agenda he propagated." [ 60 ] The tendency of a growing number of Rhodes Scholars to enter business or private law, as opposed to public service for which the scholarship was intended, has been a source of frequent criticism and "occasional embarrassment." [ 63 ] Writing in 2009, the Secretary of the Rhodes Trust criticised the trend of Rhodes Scholars to pursue careers in finance and business, noting that "more than twice as many [now] went into business in just one year than did in the entire 1970s", attributing it to "grotesque" remuneration offered by such occupations. [ 64 ] At least a half dozen 1990s Rhodes Scholars became partners at Goldman Sachs and, since the 1980s, McKinsey has had numerous Rhodes Scholars as partners. Similarly, of Rhodes Scholars who became attorneys, about one-third serve as staff attorneys for private corporations, while another third remain in private practice or academic posts. [ 65 ] According to Schaeper and Schaeper, "From 1904 to the present, the program's critics have had two main themes: first, that too many scholars were content with comfortable, safe jobs in academe, in law, and in business; second, that too few had careers in government or other fields where public service was the number-one goal." [ 66 ] Andrew Sullivan wrote in 1988 that "of the 1,900 or so living American scholars…about 250 fill middle-rank administrative and professorial positions in middle-rank state colleges and universities…[while] another 260...have ended up as lawyers." [ 67 ] Surveying the history of the Rhodes Scholarship, Schaeper and Schaeper conclude [ 68 ] that while "few of them have 'changed the world'…most of them have been a credit to their professions…and communities," finding that "the great majority of Rhodes Scholars have had solid, respectable careers." Eight former Rhodes scholars subsequently became heads of government or heads of state, including Wasim Sajjad (President of Pakistan ), Bill Clinton (President of the United States ), Dom Mintoff (Prime Minister of Malta ), John Turner (Prime Minister of Canada ), Norman Manley (Premier of Jamaica ), and three Prime Ministers of Australia : Bob Hawke , Tony Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull . From 1951 to 1997, 32% of American Rhodes Scholars pursued careers in education and academia, 20% in law, 15% in business, and 10% in medicine and science. [ 69 ] Although Cecil Rhodes imagined that scholars would "pursue a full-time career in government…the number of scholars in local, state and federal government has remained at a steady 7 per cent" over the past century. Of the 200 or so scholars who have spent their careers in government, "most of them have had solid, but undistinguished careers," while "perhaps forty or more can be said to have had a significant, national impact in their particular areas." [ 70 ] The most popular career choice for Rhodes Scholars is education and academia, with many becoming deans of law and medical schools and others becoming professors and lecturers. Many of the most distinguished Rhodes Scholars, such as Zambian activist Lucy Banda , have become prominent members of the civil rights movement. [ 71 ] In 1990, third-wave feminist author Naomi Wolf put forward ideas about beauty and power with her book The Beauty Myth , ushering in a new type of feminism that has risen to prominence in the digital age. [ 72 ] Rhodes Scholars have had a notable impact in the fields of medicine and science. Howard Florey was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship in 1922 after studying medicine at the University of Adelaide Medical School . In 1939 Florey, along with fellow scientist Ernst Boris Chain , led the team that successfully isolated and purified penicillin. [ 73 ] Robert Q. Marston , an American Rhodes Scholar who studied with Florey, was Director of the National Institutes of Health (USA) from 1968 to 1973. He was credited with maintaining the high quality of basic science research in the Institutes. Challenging some of the convictions of the scholarship's founder is not a recent occurrence. As early as 1931, Afrikaner -born anti-apartheid lawyer and Rhodes Scholar Bram Fischer campaigned for equal rights for all South Africans. This led him to join the Communist Party of South Africa . Fischer was struck off the roll by the Johannesburg Bar Council in 1965 after he skipped bail on charges under the Suppression of Communism Act . He was later arrested and sentenced to life in prison. [ 74 ] Other Rhodes Scholars have taken on difficult social causes with more success. Fred Paterson defended workers and unions at a reduced price, before he sat in the Queensland state parliament as the first and only Communist party member in Australian history. [ 75 ] In 1978, former Rhodes Scholar Ann Olivarius sued Yale University over their mis-handling of on-campus sexual harassment complaints. [ 76 ] [ 77 ] After leaving Oxford to write his first novel, former Rhodes Scholar Jonathan Kozol worked as a teacher in the Roxbury neighbourhood of Boston , Massachusetts. He would go on to write Death at an Early Age: The Destruction of the Hearts and Minds of Negro Children in the Boston Public Schools , after witnessing first-hand the devastating effect educational inequality was having on America. [ 78 ] Rhodes Scholars Marc Kielburger and Roxanne Joyal conduct similar work with their organization Free the Children . Together they build schools and educate children in developing countries across Africa. [ 79 ] Much of the Rhodes alumni civil and human rights work has been focused in Africa, particularly South Africa . South African Justice Edwin Cameron initially focused his attention on law and employment law, but later worked in the field of LGBT rights as well as co-founding the Aids Consortium . Two-time Pulitzer Prize winning journalist Nick Kristof was pivotal in shedding light on atrocities such as Tiananmen Square and the Darfur genocide . [ 80 ] Professor Sandra Fredman has also written extensively on anti-discrimination law, human rights law and labour law. [ 81 ] Rhiana Gunn-Wright was the creator of the Green New Deal . [ 82 ] In 2014, Iranian Rhodes Scholar Pardis Sabeti used genome sequencing and computational genetics to identify the source of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. [ 83 ] She is also the front-person for indie-rock band Thousand Days . Another Rhodes Scholar working in genome research is the mathematician and geneticist Eric Lander . His ideas in human genetics, particularly mapping and sequencing, led to the creation of The Cancer Genome Atlas . [ 84 ] Salim Yusuf , an Indian scholar, conducted significant research into heart health and its relationship to developing economies. He observed that shifts in the developing world, particularly dietary changes and increased urbanization, lead to higher incidences of heart attacks and strokes. [ 85 ] In Zimbabwe , A. Tariro Makadzange has researched perinatally infected children with HIV and HIV-positive adults with cryptococcal disease . Since graduating from Oxford, she has set up a new infectious disease laboratory at the University of Zimbabwe in Harare . [ 86 ] Sir Alimuddin Zumla , a British-Zambian, infectious diseases scholar declined an offer to take up the scholarship. [ 87 ] [ 88 ] Decades later, Zumla was recognized by Clarivate Analytics , Web of Science as one of the world's top 1% most cited researchers. [ 89 ] [ 90 ] [ 91 ] After studying at Oxford, surgeon and author Atul Gawande became an advisor to Bill Clinton and the U.S Department of Health and Human Services . [ 92 ] In recent years he has devised an innovative checklist for a successful surgery. [ 93 ] [ 94 ] Other surgical innovations brought about by Rhodes Scholars include the GliaSite technique, a device that lowers the risks associated with radiation therapy in brain tumours. A number of Rhodes scholars have gone on to careers in neurosurgery . One of the most influential neurosurgeons of all time, Wilder Penfield , was a Canadian Rhodes Scholar in 1915. Neurosurgeon Sir Hugh Cairns was a Rhodes Scholar for South Australia in 1917, whose treatment of Lawrence of Arabia led to research that informed the introduction of motorcycle helmets. Neurosurgeon Griffith Harsh was a Rhodes Scholar and created the GliaSite device. [ 95 ] One of the first recipients of the Rhodes Scholarship was the American poet, educator and critic John Crowe Ransom . He became a founding member of the influential Fugitive literary group. [ 96 ] A contemporary of Ransom's who also became a Rhodes Scholar was Robert Penn Warren . Warren was lambasted by his peers who told him that the study of English literature was a soft option; seeking to rebut such attacks, he introduced new critical ideas into the study of poetry and fiction, and these ideas went on to change how literature was taught at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, not only in America itself. [ 97 ] Tasmanian Rhodes Scholar Richard Flanagan ( Tasmania and Worcester, 1984) is a celebrated author, having been awarded the Man Booker Prize in 2014 for his novel The Narrow Road to the Deep North . In 2006, lawyer and current Lieutenant Governor of New York Antonio Delgado critiqued capitalism and racial injustice under the name "AD the Voice." [ 98 ] Roughly 90 years previously, the phrase "keeping it real" was used by Rhodes scholar Alain Locke in his book The New Negro to describe the pursuit of in the face of mainstream media's portrayal of African American culture. [ 99 ] Locke's work inspired the Harlem Renaissance movement, and "keeping it real" has since become a universally recognized hip-hop ethos. [ 100 ] After studying ion propulsion at Oxford, Jennifer Gruber embarked on a career as a space engineer . She is currently coordinating missions between the Johnson Space Center and the International Space Station as an employee of NASA . [ 101 ] [ needs update ] Rhodes Scholar Brian Greene co-founded ISCAP, Columbia's Institute for Strings, Cosmology, and Astroparticle Physics . As well as winning a Pulitzer Prize for non-fiction, Greene made some ground-breaking discoveries in the field of superstring theory and was one of the cosmologists to co-develop superstring theory . [ 102 ] The Rhodes Scholarship model has inspired successor scholarships in many countries. These include: In structure and selection criteria, the scholarship is similar to the John Monash Scholarship , Schwarzman Scholarship , Knight-Hennessy Scholarship , Weidenfeld-Hoffmann Scholarship and Leadership Program , Gates Cambridge Scholarship , Marshall Scholarship , Yenching Scholarship , Fulbright Program , Erasmus Mundus Scholarship , and Chevening Scholarship . As with the Rhodes, the Gates Cambridge, Yenching, Knight-Hennessy, and Schwarzman scholarships are tenable at only one university. The Knight-Hennessy and Schwarzman Scholarships similarly award scholarships to students from all nations, with a focus on public service and leadership. [ 108 ] [ 109 ] The Rhodes Scholarship is most closely associated with the Marshall Scholarship , with university fellowship offices often preparing applicants for both concurrently. [ 4 ] [ 110 ] [ 111 ] The founders of the Marshall in 1953 initially considered partnering with the Rhodes and even considered using the same selection committees, but this idea was disregarded because the Marshall proponents believed the scholarships should be available to women, and to married men under the age of 28; at the time, the Rhodes Scholarship was limited to single men under the age of 25. [ 112 ] Some highlight a longstanding rivalry between the two since the Marshall was established, with the Rhodes historically perceived as more "athletic" and the Marshall "more intellectual", though the distinctions between them today are negligible. [ 113 ] When he applied for the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships, 1959 Marshall Scholar Stephen Breyer "made a frustrating and ultimately unsuccessful attempt to crew at Stanford in order to fulfil the Rhodes scholarship's athletic requirement." [ 114 ] Books by former Wardens of Rhodes House, Oxford\n\n